Short Note on NATO No-Fly Zone
==============================

A "No-Fly Zone" means restricting or fully interdicting flights of aircraft, UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) and missiles, other than the aircraft enforcing the zone, in the airspace above a certain designated area. How a NATO-enforced no-fly zone would work over Ukraine: NATO fighter jets operating from bases in NATO countries (Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania) fly patterns at different altitudes above a certain restricted area over Ukraine; Ukraine is huge, so there should be multiple no-fly zones to cover the entire country (or at least, the contested regions); the jets fly what it's called a Combat Air Patrol (CAP) - and the name suggests what they are actually doing - combat - they are directed by Airborne Early Warning and Control (AWACS) aircraft, equipped with long range radards, that tell them where Russ/Ukrainian aircraft are airborne, and they go and intercept them, either forcing them to land, or shooting them down if they don't heed the order to RTB (return to base) and land. As you can see, this is a fully combat mission.

A no-fly zone over certain parts of Ukraine would mean both shooting down Russ aircraft, and ground attack missions against Russ surface-to-air (SAM) missile installations, and the radar installations that those use. That would also mean conducting ground attack missions inside Russ territory, since a lot of these SAM installations are based either in Russia or Belarus (see the long range S-400 Triumf mobile SAM, of which the Russ has plenty at the border with Ukraine), virtually (or formally) declaring war on Russia and Belarus. Now, this war could be restricted to the air element, if the Russ doesn't want to escalate it (Moscow's bullying gives other signals though), but even so, this would trigger the Russ to conduct missions against NATO air bases where their jets operate from (in effect bombing Poland, Romania etc), and also doing their best to shoot down the tanker aircaft that are in-flight refuelling NATO fighter jets. This stuff could escalate very quickly to a full-on air bombing war with NATO deploying not only fighter or fighter-bomber aircraft but also strategic bombers and cruise/ballistic missiles to bomb targets in Russia or Belarus, with these two countries doing the same against NATO countries, and full-on war starting in no-time. This is why everyone who actually knows what a no-fly zone means is against enforcing one.
